% tpm2_loadexternal(1) tpm2-tools | General Commands Manual
%
% SEPTEMBER 2017

# NAME

**tpm2_loadexternal**(1) - load an external object into the TPM. This command
loads an external object into the TPM, forgoing TPM protections. Ie, the key
material is not protected by the parent objects seed.

# SYNOPSIS

**tpm2_loadexternal** [*OPTIONS*]

# DESCRIPTION

**tpm2_loadexternal**(1) - load an object that is not a Protected Object into the
TPM. The command allows loading of a public area or both a public and a
sensitive area.

# Output
The tool outputs the handle of the loaded object in hex. It is the form of a YAML
scalar.

# OPTIONS

  * **-a**, **--hierarchy**=_HIERARCHY_:
    hierarchy to use for the ticket, optional. Defaults to **n**, **null**.
    Supported options are:
      * **o** for the **owner** hierarchy.
      * **p** for the **platform** hierarchy.
      * **e** for the **endorsement** hierarchy.
      * **n** for the **null** hierarchy.

  * **-u**, **--pubfile**=_PUBLIC\_FILE_:
    The public portion of the object, this can be one of the following file formats:
      * TSS - The TSS/TPm format. For example from option `-u` of command `tpm2_create`.
      * RSA - OSSL PEM formats. For example `public.pem` from the command
        `openssl rsa -in private.pem -out public.pem -pubout`

  * **-r**, **--privfile**=_PRIVATE\_FILE_:
    The sensitive portion of the object, optional. If one wishes to use the private portion
    of a key, this must be specified. Like option **-u**, this command takes files in the
    following format:
      * RSA - OSSL PEM formats. For example `private.pem` from the command
        `openssl genrsa -out private.pem 2048`
        Since an RSA public key can be derived from the private PEM file, their is no
        need to specify -u for the public portion.

    *Note*: The private portion does not respect TSS formats as it's impossible to get a
            `TPM2B_SENSITIVE` output from a previous command.

  * **-p**, **--auth-key**=_KEY\_AUTH_:
    The authorization value for the key, optional.
    Follows the authorization formatting of the
    "password for parent key" option: **-P**.

  * **-L**, **--policy-file**=_POLICY\_FILE_:
    The input policy file, optional. A file containing the hash of a policy derived from
    `tpm2_createpolicy`.

  * **-g**, **--halg**=_ALGORITHM_:
    The hash algorithm for generating the objects name. This is optional
    and defaults to sha256 when not specified. However, load external supports
    having a *null* name algorithm. In this case, no cryptographic binding checks
    between the public and private portions are performed.
    Algorithms should follow the
    "formatting standards", see section "Algorithm Specifiers".
    Also, see section "Supported Hash Algorithms" for a list of supported
    hash algorithms.

  * **-A**, **--object-attributes**=_ATTRIBUTES_:
    The object attributes, optional. Object attributes follow the specifications
    as outlined in "object attribute specifiers". The default for created objects is:
    `TPMA_OBJECT_SIGN_ENCRYPT|TPMA_OBJECT_DECRYPT`. Optionally, if -p is specified or no
    `-p` or `-L` is specified then `TPMA_OBJECT_USERWITHAUTH` is added to the default
    attribute set.

    *Note*: If specifying attributes, the TPM will reject certain attributes like
    `TPMA_OBJECT_FIXEDTPM`, as those guarantees cannot be made.

  * **-o**, **--out-context**=_CONTEXT\_FILE_
    The file to save the object context, optional.

# Notes

* If the hierarchy is *null* or the name hashing algorithm is *null*, tickets produced using the object
  will be NULL.

* If the private portion of an object is specified, the hierarchy must be *null* or the TPM will reject
  loading it.

[common options](common/options.md)

[common tcti options](common/tcti.md)

[authorization formatting](common/password.md)

[supported hash algorithms](common/hash.md)

[supported public object algorithms](common/object-alg.md)

# EXAMPLES

Load a public area generated by `tpm2_create` or `tpm2_readpublic` into the
owner hierarchy.

```
tpm2_create -G rsa -u pub.dat -r priv.dat
tpm2_loadexternal -a o -u pub.dat -o object.ctx
```

Load a key with sensitive area, ie something like an RSA private key,
into the null hierarchy.
```
genrsa -out private.pem 2048
tpm2_loadexternal -a n -r private.pem -o object.ctx
```

# RETURNS

0 on success or 1 on failure.

[footer](common/footer.md)
